>> Scott Moss: But we're just gonna
hop into it, cuz that's the fun part.
So if you click on implementation,
basically implementation is all
the code we're about to write for this.
What we need to do, the goal is to,
if you saw when I did the demo of the app,
I had the sign in form, the sign up form.
We need to make that work.
It doesn't do anything
until we hook this up.
So first what you need to do is, you
need to check out to a different branch.
You check out to the step/0 branch.
This branch has, it doesn't work.
There's nothing in here, [LAUGH]
there's only the bare minimum in here.
Our goal is to get this to work.
Right, we're gonna go in and
start making these things work together.
The main branch is where
everything is completed.
So that's what I showed
you at the beginning.
But we're gonna start on step 0 with
pretty much everything stripped out,
and we need to go in and enable it.
The first thing we're gonna do is getting
those authentication forms to work using
form actions.
So the first thing we need to do is,
so again,
I'm gonna tell you what my opinion of it
is while also telling you what I think.
NextJS want you to do is not,
[LAUGH] they don't always match.
What I like to do with my actions is,
I like to put them in
an actions folder on the route.
There's many ways to make actions.
You can make them directly
inside of a server component and
different things like that.
I prefer to put them on the routes.
You can even make them
inside of client components.
When you do that, it's just really
hard to test them, move them around,
just like any other piece of code.
So I just put them all in a folder.
So that's what we're gonna do,
we're gonna make a folder called actions.
And for our actions, as far as
being able to sign in and sign up,
we're gonna make a file called auth.
These are gonna be all the actions
we use for authentication.
So let's do that.
>> Scott Moss: So on the route,
not inside the app directory, but
literally on the route of the repo, I'm
gonna make a new folder called actions.
And inside of there,
a new file called auth.ts.
So yeah, please follow along if you can.
>> Scott Moss: And then from there,
there are a few imports,
get back to my notes, that we wanna use.
Talk about the use server directive and
why we need this outside of a component,
right?
So use server.
Anybody know what this does?
This directive does, or wanna guess?
>> Speaker 2: Or says that this page
should be processed on the server.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
you would think so, [LAUGH].
There's actually.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: There's actually a,
where is it?
Server only, there we go.
That's what this does.
Yeah, that makes sense.
Use server should force it, right?
Yeah, this use server is a hint
to the React compiler that this
file should be ran in a NodeJS
environment, basically.
It's like, this should be
ran in a NodeJS environment.
It also hints at how, when you
start composing components together
like a client component
with a server component,
it hints to the compiler that,
these things can't belong in this order.
You can't import a server component into a
client component, or something like that.
So it gives the compiler hints and
it tells it what environment it should
run in and what it has access to.
Also, just from a human perspective,
it's just something you can look at and
be like, okay, I know this file
has the context of a server, so
therefore we're good.
But in the case of Next.js and
React, you have to add this.
You cannot use an action, a server action
without that server action being scoped
inside of a use server directive.
Either globally in the page or
in a component,
you could put use server at the top
of the function you're making,
which I think is a gross UI and you should
pretty much always do this, in my opinion.
I don't know why they even show you
the other one, but you can do it.
As far as these imports,
cookies, nothing special here.
I will talk about how this is
used because it's kinda cool.
I already have some pre-made signin,
signup functions.
You can go check those out,
we won't be working on those.
It's just being able to take a email,
password, hash it,
sign in, take the email password,
hash it, sign up, that type of thing.
Typical email password sign up,
nothing crazy.
Zod, we're gonna use this for schema
validation so we can validate our inputs.
Redirect, so we can redirect to
the dashboard once someone signs in or
signs up, and the name of
the cookie that we'll be setting.
So what we need to do, the objective, is
we need to create a function in which we
can call when someone
completes the sign up form.
We're gonna call that registerUser.
And we need to create a function which we
can call when someone creates the sign in
form, we'll call that signinUser.
So let's do that.
So for registerUser,
we go back to my code.
Let's do that.
I'll say, const registerUser equals async.
And I'll talk about these arguments.
So the first argument is gonna
be the previous state of
the form that this action
is gonna be bound to.
That's gonna make more sense
when we go make the JSX.
But we're gonna be using this special
hook that basically provides the previous
state of the form as the first argument
into which the action that you
give it is part of this special
hook that we're gonna be using.
So we won't be using this example, but
that's always gonna be the first argument.
And then the second argument is
actually gonna be the form data,
which is gonna be type formData.
If you don't know what formData type is,
it's just a map.
It's a map of all the input fields by
the name that you gave them in the form.
>> Scott Moss: So we have that.
Like always, never trust a client.
Probably wanna validate these
inputs before you do anything.
So I'm using Zod here to make a schema for
that, so I just created a schema.
If you don't know what Zod is, it's just
a runtime schema validation library.
You can create a schema,
pass it an object, and try to validate it.
It'll throw an error if it doesn't match,
it'll succeed if it does.
It's a very popular
schema validation tool.
So we have our authSchema here.
It's just checking to make sure
that this object has a email and
it has a password, and
they're both type string.
So once we do that, what we wanna do is
we want to try to validate that schema.
We can do the parse function.
By default, this is gonna throw an error.
If it fails, that's fine, we'll talk
about how we might wanna handle that.
So let's do that.
We'll say, data = authSchema.parse.
And we wanna pass in the email here.
That's gonna be formData.get
because it's a map, and
the field on that form is
gonna be called email.
And then for password,
it's the same thing, just password.
You have to call the get method on maps.
>> Scott Moss: Okay, assuming that's good,
we're gonna wrap the next part in
a try-catch, the actual sign up part.
And the reason we wanna do that is so
we can show a message on
the form if the sign up fails.
So we're gonna try-catch that.
So let's do that.
So we'll say, let's try and
get a token from
awaiting the signup function
that's imported at the top.
This just takes in data.
It takes in an object with the email and
password,
which is what this schema returns if
it's valid, cuz it's email password.
So that's that object.
It returns an object with the user and
a token.
We're just gonna destructure and
get the token.
>> Scott Moss: And then if it succeeds,
what we need to do is, we're using
JSON Web Tokens for authentication, and
I'm just gonna set them in the cookie.
The reason I'm setting them in
the cookie is because I want to
be able to access the JSON Web Token
on all of my server-side calls and
functions which have
access to the cookies.
If I store the JSON Web Token in
a local storage or something like that,
I would not be able to access
that JSON Web Token server-side.
There's no way to access
local storage from a server.
And because we're not sending any
requests on a lot of these things,
I can't just take it out the local
storage and send it to the server.
It's possible, it's just a lot more work.
I just inflate doing it.
Honestly, you should be storing
JSON Web Tokens in secure cookies anyway.
You should be storing them in local store.
So we need to set it,
you can use the cookies.
We're able to use cookies here
on the server because, again,
we didn't make the request.
But essentially what's
happening here is a request.
So just like any request handler,
we have access to the request.
So by just importing the cookies,
it already knows what current
request is happening right now,
so we don't have to tell it.
So we can just call cookies and
it knows what to do.
So in this case,
I'm just gonna say cookies.set,
the cookie name with the token.
And then if there's any error,
just log the error,
and then we're gonna send back a message.
So let's do that.
So we'll log the error, we'll send
back a message, fill to sign up.
And at the end, if everything works,
we'll do a redirect to /dashboard.
You might be asking why I don't just put
the redirect here and the try after here.
There is a bug for
some reason on this redirect.
I had to go deep into the Next.js
issues to figure this out.
If you put this in a try-catch,
it actually catches an error somehow.
[LAUGH] I guess there's an error being
thrown here, even though it works.
And that your try-catch will catch it and
it will land here,
it won't actually redirect.
So don't put a redirect in a try-catch.
I don't know if that's a bug,
if that's intentional.
But yeah, I was stuck on this for
two days, about three months ago, and
that's what I found out.
Don't put it in a try-catch.
>> Scott Moss: Cool, so we have that.
Export this, registerUser.
Now we want to hook this up to the form.
So let's do that.
We go back to our notes.
Couple things we need to do is, one,
we're gonna create a Submit button.
I'll talk about why the button is
separate from the rest of the form.
And then we need to add all
that stuff to the form,
which should be mostly built out, I think.
I can't remember what stale left it in,
but let's go check it out.
So if we go to app, you should see
a auth folder for the season it.
Quick refresher,
parentheses around a folder in Next.js
app directory means this route
segment won't have a route.
There won't be a slash auth, but
you want a folder because you want all
these child segments to share a layout.
So it's like a group.
It's called a route group.
It's like, I wanna group all these routes
together so they can share this layout,
but I don't wanna make a new
route segment called auth.
So in this case, I can still go
to slash signup and slash signin.
Whereas if I didn't have these
parentheses to be slash auth signup,
slash auth signin, which is gross.
So I put this parentheses here,
which allows me to not have that in the
route segment, but still get the benefit
of sharing a layout here because
they're basically the same thing.
So that's what that is.
Okay, so let's go to,
actually we're gonna go to the components.
We're gonna go to signupForm, and
this is where we wanna do our work.
So in the signupForm, notice,
it's a client component.
This is important, this is very important.
This is a client component.
You can import server actions and
client components.
That's the whole point of them, actually.
Because most of the time,
if you think about it,
you probably wanna call some
action on some user interaction,
on a click, on a submit,
on something a user did.
You can think of it as the same case
where you would have made a post request,
you would have made any type of
request when a user did something.
Okay, replace that request
with a server action.
Now I wanna do a server action
when a user does something.
Right now we're specifically talking about
forms, but later we'll talk about how you
can use server actions on any interaction,
not just forms.
>> Scott Moss: Okay,
any questions on that?
I think the Next.js docs just over
explains that, but it's really
just a function that gets executed on a
server, but you can call it on the client.
The best way I can describe it is,
imagine if you had some code gin,
whereas if you made a functional server,
you run this script, and
it automatically creates a route for
you and abstracts that route away and
a function that you can call anywhere.
That's the best way I can describe it.
It's just an abstracted route that you
didn't have to configure yourself.
Okay, cool, so first thing is, we need to
useFormState hook to set up our state.
And then we need to bind that to our form,
and then we can kinda use
the message here to show an error message,
and we'll go from there.
So first what we want is to useFormState.
Notice, that comes from react-dom.
That does not come from Next.js.
That is a React thing.
So we got that.
We're gonna create an initial state.
Since we're only passing a message,
we're just gonna have our initial state
just be a null message like this.
I'm gonna create our hook, useFormState.
useFormState takes in two arguments.
It's gonna take in the actual action you
want to run when the form is submitted
as the first argument, and then
the initial state as the second argument.
So the action we wanna run is gonna be
the registerUser one that we just made.
So I'm gonna say registerUser.
And then the initial state
is the initial state here.
My TypeScript is freaking out.
This thing freaks out if you
don't give it a generic.
You don't have to, it's just TypeScript,
but if you want to,
I do have it in the notes.
You basically just type out the initial
state if you wanna do that.
I'll just do it right now for
all the TypeScript stamps out there.
So message would be string or null.
>> Scott Moss: This is just gonna
freak out, don't worry about that.
And then here what it returns is gonna
be a tuple, like most hooks in React.
The first one's gonna be
the actual form state.
In this case, it's gonna be
a object with a message on it.
And then the action that you can call,
in this case we're gonna
bind it to the form action.
So let's do that.
So we have our formState,
and then we have our action.
>> Scott Moss: And then on the form,
it's not on submit.
No longer are you doing on submit.
On submit is a client-side thing.
A form action, if you're OG,
you typically give it a URL, right?
You'd be like,
I wanna go to this route here,
.php, or something, right?
You do something like that, right?
That's OG right there.
So it's the same thing,
except for it's like, well,
I just wanna run this action, which is,
again, it's like a concealed route.
It's like a route that was made for
you, concealed as a function.
So it's very similar to
just putting a route there.
You just don't know what that route is,
it's a generator route.
>> Scott Moss: Any question so far?
>> Speaker 2: I do have one question.
Out of curiosity,
I know this is a client component.
>> Scott Moss: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: And I'm assuming because
some of the components that we're
importing are also client components.
But I'm just curious,
would it be possible to maybe duplicate
this form purely as a server component?
>> Scott Moss: If you replicate
this form as a server component,
then you couldn't handle
any of the interactions,
because interactions are only
possible on the client.
So as soon as you go server component,
you have no interactions.
>> Speaker 2: So
server components are typically read-only.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so a forum,
I would imagine if you added a forum,
you want some type of interaction.
So yeah,
it wouldn't be a simple way to do that.